README.md, before:

# 🍎 FreshTrack AI 

> **Stop Waste, Save Freshness.** An AI-powered food inventory manager that detects spoilage and scans expiry dates in real-time.

---

## 🚀 Overview
FreshTrack AI solves the $1 trillion global food waste problem by giving users "digital eyes" for their kitchen. It uses Computer Vision to analyze produce freshness and OCR to track packaged goods.

### ✨ Key Features
* **AI Freshness Analysis:** Detects rot, mold, and wilting in produce using a custom CNN.
* **Smart OCR Scanner:** Automatically extracts "Best Before" dates from packaging.
* **Virtual Fridge:** A digital inventory that syncs your groceries to your phone.
* **Proactive Alerts:** Push notifications sent 24 hours before food expires.
* **Recipe Suggestions:** (Beta) Suggests meals based on what's about to spoil.

---

## 🛠 Tech Stack
- **Frontend:** Flutter (iOS/Android)
- **Backend:** FastAPI (Python)
- **AI/ML:** TensorFlow, MobileNetV2, EasyOCR
- **Database:** SQLAlchemy (SQLite/Postgres)
- **Deployment:** Docker, Google Cloud Run

---

## 📸 Screenshots
| Freshness Scan | Expiry Detection | Fridge View |
| :---: | :---: | :---: |
| ![Scan](https://via.placeholder.com/200x400?text=AI+Analysis) | ![OCR](https://via.placeholder.com/200x400?text=Date+Scanner) | ![Fridge](https://via.placeholder.com/200x400?text=Inventory) |

---

## ⚙️ Installation

### 1. Backend (Python)
```bash
cd backend
pip install -r requirements.txt
uvicorn main:app --reload

Commit message:

README for 2026 Edition and feature updates
Updated README for 2026 edition with new features and project structure.

README.md, after:

# 🍎 FreshTrack AI (2026 Edition)

> **"Digital Eyes for your Kitchen."** An AI-driven application designed to reduce food waste through visual freshness analysis and automated expiry tracking.

---

## 🌟 The Vision
By 2026, we aim to reduce household food waste by 25%. FreshTrack AI uses **Computer Vision** to see what you see, identifying rot before it happens and reading labels so you don't have to.

### 🚀 Core Features
* **AI Freshness Scanner:** Real-time visual analysis of produce (Apples, Bananas, Spinach, etc.).
* **OCR Expiry Detection:** Automatically extracts "Best Before" dates from packaged items.
* **Virtual Inventory:** A synchronized list of your fridge contents.
* **Smart Reminders:** Push notifications sent 24 hours before an item is predicted to spoil.

---

## 🛠 Project Structure
- **/backend**: Python FastAPI service handling the AI models and database logic.
- **/mobile_app**: Flutter application for iOS and Android.

---

## 🧪 Installation (Developer Mode)

### Backend
1. Install dependencies: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
2. Start server: `uvicorn main:app --reload`

### Mobile App
1. Get packages: `flutter pub get`
2. Launch app: `flutter run`

---

## 📄 License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
© 2026 FreshTrack AI Team
